ERC-5143: Slippage protection for Tokenized Vault ERC (#5143)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-5143.md

---
eip: 5143

> title: Slippage protection for Tokenized Vault

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Slippage Protection for Tokenized Vault
```

> description: An extension of the ERC-4626 standard for improve EOA interactions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: An extension of the ERC-4626 standard for improved EOA interactions.
```

> description: An extension of the ERC-4626 standard for improved EOA interactions.

Reviewer 2: We try to avoid standard in titles and descriptions:

```suggestion
description: An extension of ERC-4626 supporting improved EOA interactions.
```

author: Hadrien Croubois (@amxx)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-5143-slippage-protection-for-tokenized-vaults/9554
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-06-09
requires: 4626
---

## Abstract

> The following standard extends the ERC-4626 Tokenized Vault standard with functions dedicated to the safe interaction between EOAs and the vault when price is subject to slippage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following standard extends the [ERC-4626](./eip-4626.md) Tokenized Vault standard with functions dedicated to the safe interaction between EOAs and the vault when price is subject to slippage.
```

> The following standard extends the [ERC-4626](./eip-4626.md) Tokenized Vault standard with functions dedicated to the safe interaction between EOAs and the vault when price is subject to slippage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following standard extends the [EIP-4626](./eip-4626.md) Tokenized Vault standard with functions dedicated to the safe interaction between EOAs and the vault when price is subject to slippage.
```

## Motivation

> [ERC-4626](./eip-4626.md) security considerations section states that:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[EIP-4626](./eip-4626.md) security considerations section states that:
```

> "If implementors intend to support EOA account access directly, they should consider adding an additional function call for deposit/mint/withdraw/redeem with the means to accommodate slippage loss or unexpected deposit/withdrawal limits, since they have no other means to revert the transaction if the exact output amount is not achieved."

> Yet, ERC-4626 does not standardize the corresponding function signatures and behaviors. For improved interroperability, and better support by wallets, it is essential that this optional functions are also standardized.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Yet, EIP-4626 does not standardize the corresponding function signatures and behaviors. For improved interroperability, and better support by wallets, it is essential that this optional functions are also standardized.
```

## Specification

> This ERC is an extenson of ERC-4626. Any contract implementing it MUST also implement ERC-4626.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This ERC is an extension of EIP-4626. Any contract implementing it MUST also implement EIP-4626.
```

I'm going to stop commenting on them, but you have to change all the ERC to EIP (except when referring to an interface named `ERC...`).

### Methods

#### deposit

Overloaded version of ERC-4626's `deposit`.

Mints `shares` Vault shares to `receiver` by depositing exactly `assets` of underlying tokens.

MUST emit the `Deposit` event.

> MUST support ERC-20 `approve` / `transferFrom` on `asset` as a deposit flow.

Reviewer 2: EIPs must be linked the first time they are mentioned:

```suggestion
MUST support [EIP-20](./eip-20.md) `approve` / `transferFrom` on `asset` as a deposit flow.
```

---

Since it sounds like reading EIP-20 to understand this EIP is mandatory, I'd recommend putting it in the `requires:` preamble field.

Author: This was copied from EIP-4626. Should the `requires` preamble field include nested dependency?

Burns exactly `shares` from `owner` and sends `assets` of underlying tokens to `receiver`.

MUST emit the `Withdraw` event.

MUST support a redeem flow where the shares are burned from `owner` directly where `owner` is `msg.sender` or `msg.sender` has ERC-20 approval over the shares of `owner`.
MAY support an additional flow in which the shares are transferred to the Vault contract before the `redeem` execution, and are accounted for during `redeem`.

MUST revert if all of `shares` cannot be redeemed (due to withdrawal limit being reached, slippage, the owner not having enough shares, etc).
MUST revert if redeeming `shares` shares sends less than `minAssets` underlying tokens to `receiver`.

Note that some implementations will require pre-requesting to the Vault before a withdrawal may be performed. Those methods should be performed separately.

```yaml
- name: redeem
  type: function
  stateMutability: nonpayable

  inputs:
    - name: shares
      type: uint256
    - name: receiver
      type: address
    - name: owner
      type: address
    - name: minAssets
      type: uint256

  outputs:
    - name: assets
      type: uint256
```

## Rationale

> ERC-5143 functions do not replace ERC-4626 equivalent mechanisms. They are additional (overloaded) methods designed to protect EOAs interracting with the vault.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ERC-5143 functions do not replace ERC-4626 equivalent mechanisms. They are additional (overloaded) methods designed to protect EOAs interacting with the vault.
```

Reviewer: Also please refer to this EIP as "this EIP" rather than by number.

> When smart contracts interract with an ERC-4626 vault, they can preview any operation using the dedicated functions before executing the operation. This can be done

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When smart contracts interact with an ERC-4626 vault, they can preview any operation using the dedicated functions before executing the operation. This can be done
```

atomically, with no risk of price change. This is not true of EOA, which will preview their operations on a UI, sign a transaction, and have it mined later.
Between the preview and the transaction being executed, the blockchain state might change, resulting in unexpected outcomes. In particular, frontrunning
make EOA's interractons with an ERC-4626 vault possibly risky.

Other projects in the DeFi spaces, such as decentralized exchanges, already include similar mechanisms so a user can request its transaction reverts if the
resulting exchange rate is not considered good enough.

Implementing ERC-5143 on top of an ERC-4626 contract can be done very easily. It just requires calling the corresponding ERC-4626 function and adding a revert
check on the returned value.

> ## Backwards Compatibility

Reviewer: This section can be removed as it is optional and the EIP does not introduce any backwards compatibility issues.

> ## Alternative approaches

Reviewer 2: Not a valid top level section; I'd recommend putting it inside the Rationale section (so `### Alternative Approaches`.)

This ERC aims at solving the security concerns (describes in the motivation section) at the vault level. For completeness, we have to mention that these issues can also be addressed using a generic ERC-4626 router, similar to how Uniswap V2 & V3 use a router to provide good user workflows on top of the Uniswap pairs. The router approach is possibly more versatile and leaves more room for evolutions (the router can be replaced at any point) but it also leads to more expensive operations because the router needs to take temporary custody of the tokens going into the vault.

> ## Reference Implementations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Reference Implementation
```

> Given an exisitng ERC-4626 implementation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given an existing ERC-4626 implementation
```
